\documentclass{article}

\usepackage{amsmath}
\title{The Latent Constructive Rewrite Model \\ or \\ The Latent Conceptual Grammar Model}
\author{Eyal Dechter \& Josh Rule \& Josh Tenenbaum}

\begin{document}
\maketitle

\section{Abstract}
How do people learn systems of related concepts from data? Consider,
for example, a school-age child's knowledge of number. This knowledge
supports a large number of related operations: the child knows which
words denote numbers, how to use those words to label cardinalities of
sets, how to translate between digit representations and word
representations of number, how to compare cardinalities, etc. The
child knows how to perform these operations over an unbounded set of
elements, even though the data that underlies this knowledge is small
and noisy. Here we propose that such systems of related concepts can
be learned via hierarchical probabilistic inference over probabilistic
string rewrite systems (PSRS) -- a mildly context-sensitive class of
probabilistic string gramamrs that corresponds to a restricted
fragment of stochastic logic programs (SLPs). Specifically, we extend
the variational expectation-maximization algorithm for Hierarchical
Dirichlet PCFGs to accomodate PSRSs. This algorithm we present enables
a tractible compromise between highly restrictive context-free
knowledge representations and the intractability of performing similar
inference procedures over general logic programs. Empirically, we show
how such restricted string rewrite systems can capture non-trivial
conceptual knowledge and how our algorithm is able to learn such
knowledge from data.

\section{Abstract 2}
What does it mean to understand a concept, and how do people come to
such an understanding.

\section{Abstract 3}
Evidence: 
  - ``the number after twenty seven is twenty six''
  - 


\section{Introduction}
The vast majority of the models of concept acquisition that have been
proposed in the artificial intelligence, machine learning and
cognitive science literatures cannot represent the conceptual systems
that even young children learn. Take, for example, the school-age
child's knowledge of number. This child knows that there is no largest
number; that ``one million forty three'' and ``8439''denote numbers
but that ``one million forty billion'' and ``a82bd'' do not; that no
two cardinalities refer to the same quantity but that some number
words refer to the same cardinalities (e.g. ``two thousand'' and
``twenty-one hundred''). Moreover, the child knows how to guage the
approximate number of elements in a collection and how to count this
number exactly. In short, the child's knowledge of number consists of
a complex system of concepts over an unbounded set of entities
(i.e. the numbers). 

Children are not born with this kind of knowledge, and, since number
is a relatively recent cultural invention, nor is it likely that
children possess innate domain specific background knowledge that
makes it easier to acquire. Children only ever see a tiny fraction of
all the numbers they can reason about and this evidence is biased,
noisy, and can be unreliable. 

A fundamental challenge for cognitive science -- and for any field
interested in understanding human-like concept acquisition -- is to
provide a theory of how such complex systems of concepts can be
learned from sparse and noisy data.

People are able to learn about complex systems of related
concepts from small amounts of noisy data. A compelling approach to
understanding such learning is to frame it as Bayesian inference over
probabilistic knowledge bases. Advances in context free grammar
induction in the past couple of decades can be seen as an instance of
this approach, in which

Our goal is to understand how children can obtain semantic knowledge
about a system of concepts from the structure of relavent perceptual
stimuli. How does a child learn that prefixing ``great-'' corresponds
to adding an additional generation in kinship relationships? How does
a child learn that ``just before'' is after ``a while before'' which
is before ``a while after''? How does a child learn that if
Figure~\ref{pairOfApples} is ``a pair of apples'' then
Figure~\ref{singleApple} is a single apple? 

Our proposal is that some interesting fragments of human conceptual
knowledge can be represented as structured relations between
linguistic tokens and other perceptual inputs; that the rules that
define these relations implicitly define the concepts that are
learned; and that these rules can be learned using the tools of
hierarchical Bayesian inference. 

For example, the concept TWENTY SEVEN is defined as the collection of
representations ``27'', ``twenty seven'', ``3 times 9,'' along with a
system of symbolic rules that translate among these representations
and facilitate answered various queries. According to our hypothesis,
the difference between TWENTY EIGHT and TWENTY SEVEN is not that they
are represented in the mind by distinct mental symbols but rather that
the rules that operate on their various representations treat them in
systematically different ways.

This view implies that an attempt to construct a computational account
of concept learning in humans needs to ground out that learning in the
relavent perceptual stimuli. 

Contribution:
\begin{itemize}
\item We present Generate Rewrite Systems (GRS) -- a formalism that borrows
  heavily from Linear Context-Free Rewriting Systems (CITE)
\item We show how GRS, though restricted in representational capactiy,
  can capture substantial cognitively plausible first-order conceptual knowledge 
\item We propose a heirarchical Bayesian model for GRS that provides a coherent framework in which a GRS can be learned given evidence
\item We show how GRS can be transformed into PRISM programs and learned within that probabilstic logic programming system
\item We provide computational experiments that provide evidence that
  our model can provide an account of some kinds of complex conceptual
  knowledge can be inferred from noisy and sparse data
\end{itemize}

\subsection{Related Work}

\section{The Model}
In this section we propose a hierarchical probabilistic model for
learning distributions over string relations. Suppose we are given
some positive instances $y_1, \dots, y_M$ of relations $R_1, \dots,
R_N$. Our model assumes that each positive instance
$y_m=R_n(\vec(x_m))$ is sampled i.i.d from a latent stochastic grammar
(LSG), $\mathcal{K}$. $\mathcal{K}$ consists of some fixed number $K$
of clauses (i.e. rules) $C_1, \dots, C_K$ over the $N$ observable
relations plus a fixed number of $H$ hidden relations $T_1, \dots,
T_H$. The \emph{architecture} of the model is the exact specification
of the parameters $K$ and $H$ and the clauses $mathcal{C}$. To each
clause $C_i$ is associated a positive real weights $\theta_i$.

The clauses of $\mathcal{K}$ are Horn clauses in a first order logic
with string concatenation. We will use PROLOG notation, in which lower
case letters are predicates and constants and uppercase letters are
variables. If two symbols are adjacent it means that the corresponding
strings are concatenated. For example, the following would is a valid
clause: $a(XY, XV) \leftarrow b(X, UV), a(X, X)$. In this rule $a$ and
$b$ are relations with arity two.

Let $C_1, \dots, C_{N(R)} = C(R)$ be the set of clauses whose head is
relation $R$ and let $\Theta_R$ be the set of corresponding
weights. Let $p_R(C_n) \sim \text{Discrete}(\Theta_R)$; that is, $p_R$
is a distribution over the clauses headed by $R$, such that each
clauses is sampled in proportion to its weight parameter.

A positive instance of this relation is sampled from $\mathcal{K}$ by
arbitrarily (i.e. uniformly at random) choosing a relation $R$ and
instantiating that relation by sampling a clause from $p_R$. Recursing
on this procedure for every atom in the body of this clause binds the
variables in the clause's head. 

Given this assumed generative process for the evidence, learning a
program involves inferring the parameter $\theta$ given a prior
probability distribution over their values. We place an independent
Dirichlet distribution over the parameters of every relation. This is
a natural choice that enables us to promote sparse programs, i.e.,
programs in which most of the mass is placed on a small number of
predicates and rules.

\section{Inference}
Inference in hierarchical Dirichlet processes in stochastic grammars
and stochastic logic programs have been well studied. Variational
Expectation-Maximization (VB-EM) is a popular approach, and this is
the algorithm we adopt here. The algorithm is described extensively
elsewhere (CITATION). As we will show in the following section, our
latent stochastic grammar model can be encoded as a stochastic logic
program, so that any VB-EM algorithm for that domain will suffice. 

\section{Implementation}
We implemented learning in LCG by encoding the model as a PRISM program.

TODO: Josh should write this section on how to translate an LCG into a
PRISM program.

\section{Experiments}
\section{Discussion}

\section{Outline}
1) Introduction
  - psychological motivation 
    - juxtaposing the kinds of knowledge that freebase has and the kinds that children learn
    - compositional semantic structure --> derive semantics from syntax
  - what is the contribution?
     - the use of string rewrite formalisms to capture conceptual knowledge and conceptual learning
     - to bring tools from computational linguistics to learning semantics
  - what kind of concept systems are we trying to capture?
  - why restrict the formalism? 
     - tractability of inference 
  - why go beyond context free grammars? 
     - if they are intractable to learn anyway, why try to go beyond them? 
  - Related Work
2) Model
- stochastic linear context free rewrite systems
  - model: what is the data? and what is being inferred? what is the prior? 
  - this can be written as PRISM program, or an SLP. 
  - inference: variational approximation 
3) Experiments
  a) worked example
  b) Number system (main result)
  3b) Results
4) Conclusion
5) Citations

\end{document}